1. What is java and why is it platform-independent?
	java is object-oriented programming language deveployed by sun microsystems  in 1995. it is used for bulding web applications,android apps and enterprice system.
        it is secure, platform-independent and mutlithread programming language.

	java is platform-independent because javac compiler compile .java file into .class file, this .class file contain bytecode. bytecode can run on any operating system which have jvm,    
	so bytecode make java platform-independent.

2.Explain the feature of java.
	1.java is simple programming language because it remove complex features such as pointer, operating overloading.
	2.java is object-oriented programming language, it support class, object, inheritance, abstaction, encapsulation, polymorphism.
        3.java is platform-independent, bytecode which run on any operationg system that makes java platform indepenedent.
	4.Java supports multithreading, where multiple thread execute independent task at same time which improves performance.
	5.Java provides security through features like bytecode verification, class loaders, and security manager, which protect the system from harmful programs.

3.what is the different between jdk, jre, jvm?
	jdk - jdk is java development kit which used to develop java application. it contain jre and development tool such as javac,java and jar.
	jre - jre is java runtime environment which provides environment to run java programs. it contain jdk and java libraries.
	jvm - jvm is java virtual machine which responsible to read bytecode and convert into machinecode.

4.what is bytecode in java?
	when javac compiler compile .java file into .class file. that .class contain set of instructions called bytecode.
	bytecode is intermediated code which run on any operation system which has jvm. bytecode makes java platform-independent.

5.Explain the concept of object-oriented programming.
	1.Encapsulation- encapsulation means binding data together as singal unit and protect internal state from unauthorized acess. just like class, it bind variable, 
	                 constructor and method as singal unit called class and making private variable and give access for authorized acess through public
                         getter and setter method. 

	2.Abstraction - abstraction means hiding internal implementation and only showing funtionality to user. we know what to do but not how to do that is abstration.
			abstraction can be achived by abstact and interface keyword. it reduce complexity of program.

	3.Inheritance - when class acquire properties and behaviours of another class and make is-a relationship that is called          inheritance.
                        extend keyword is used for inheritance.

	4.Polymorphism - polymorphism means many forms. it allow singal method behave differently in different contexts.
			 for exammple singal method draw() behave differently in different context suc as circle, triangle and rectangle.
			 it is achieved by method overloading and method overriding 

	 




                                                                            